the sonification


"howes and Classen recoommend that a researcher must both develop an awareness of and 'overcome' her or his own 'sensory biases' (or as I discuss below 'sensory subjectivity') and then train 'oneself to be sensitie to a multiplicity of sensory expressions.' They suggest undertaking exercises in self-training that might involve 'taking some object from one's envirnoment and disengaging one's attention from the object itself so as to focues on how each of its sensory properties would impinge on one's consciousness were they not filtered in any way'. From this they recommend that researchers develop what they call 'the capacity to be "of two sensoria' about things'. This entails being able to operrate with complete awareness in two perceptual systems of sensory orders simultaneously (the sensory order of one's own culture and that of the culture studied), and constantly comparing notes. (1991: 260) (Pink 60)
	- I want to challenge this assumption of simultaneity: Is it truly a simultaneous attention to two or more senses, or is it an oscillation of attentional focus between each stimulus at a rate higher than Howes' and Classen's own awareness(es)? 

I'm going to present a sonification of my research. My notes, the locations where I took them, the dates when I took them, will modulate each other. But in the spirit of cross-coupling sensoria, instead of presenting this sonification through a speaker, I'm going to instead use our classroom's desk as the vibrational medium. Therefore, I also seek to demonstrate Gibson's ecological theory of perception, where stimuli of an ecology "[emphasize] the role of the environment itself in structuring ... the auditory [and] tactile ... stimulation" (1994: 20), and through Ingold's theory of entanglement, (Ingold 2008: 1797), taking the notion of bodies in a space and/as environment. This is to say I am a messy part of your environment. In this sonic-haptic-ification, our respective physical connections to this table will modulate the table's resonance, thus modulating the sonic-haptic performance. Our presences modulate how we each perceive my research data.



ALSO: In the interest of reflexivity, I also want to cknowledge a bias that became aparent to me as I worked: I continued to refer to this sonification as that, a 'sonification', or a 'sonification/haptic-performance'. Despite their inextrincable linking, the placing of auditory stimulus ahead of or without the haptic stimulus in my description betrays my own bias as a primarily-sound-based artist. 