how you first encountered the chair, how it feels, what it represents to you. how it changes when in a different environment. 


- thinking about futures reflects on our 


temporal proximity


globarl warming:
	2 questions you would ask yourself

	1. can you still live in ontario?
	2. what could present me do to change future me's life for the better?

	future self answers:

	1. probably not, its mostly underwater
	2. invest in boats

	how does alterity affect the way people 


	future requires risk
	future requires negative capability
	future requires public anthropology -- needs to be accessible in order to have an impact


	"someone using the camera is actually performing" - Jacky


	how does the researcher presenting a methodology affect the power dynamic. should participants be involved in co-creating the methodology and how does this affect the power dynamic? 

		-- what do you mean when you say we would be better equipped to ... [[my pet peeve is the use of the 'we']]

		-- sophie: just because you have flipped a power dynamic doesnt mean you have solved an ethical question


capitalism isn't just about money its about social capital. jacky brought up the point of getting credit for publishing work



from critical social work: the idea that help isn't innocent. 


short term ethnography: what is long term ethnography 

is there a future orientation in short-term 

>>>THIS: word-for-word of my thoughts on the discussion of short-term and long-term: seems that short-term ethnography is future-oriented, right? its declared at the outset, or in the proposition of an outset. but i wonder in doing long-term ethnography, does not preclude short-termness. through a past-orientation that sees events as segmentations of the macro-temporality. does this get into thinking that what is longterm is the genealogy of the research or discours(es)?
	- and further, and this relates to my own nascent research and writing methodology, that this compels one to consider long-term ethnography as a temporal distribution of research contributions over lifetimes, how does short- and longterm- ethnography prepare a researcher for developing a methodology that better serves not only past and contemporaneous collaborators, but those who encounter one's ideas in the future?

		- "extracting knowledge from people, and then finding ways to extract it." (guy in our class, friends with jacky)



does the audience possess the tools/skills to handle the effect of a given medium. how does an audience handle animation? it makes me think of electroacoustic music, where certain techniques can be used to create an effect called schizophonia, where you can't discern a sound's source from its electronic reproduction. i.e. trevor wishart's red bird human whistle>birdsound. the effect in this piece is ~800ms where you can't tell one sound from the other, in other works you can really extend this mental state. its quite revered in my field, but for example my girlfriend just can't listen to some of the music i really like because she this schizophonic state is really very troubling for her. so what do ethnographers who work within the arts have to say about this? 

	-- jacky: what is the responsibility of an ethnograph